+++
title = "On Striving"
date = 2024-04-05
draft = false
+++

It's one of the phrases I often hear: "Nothing happens suddenly in life." Of course, it's so true! Really, nothing happens all of a sudden. But what does that mean?

Some things in life have very basic procedures, very simple rules. Sometimes, despite their simplicity, they are so true that they are embodied in the stereotypes of society, and they are occasionally heard left and right. However, the rule I mentioned at the beginning will manifest itself, and it is not possible to understand such rules all of a sudden. You need to have experienced certain things. [Master Morpheus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morpheus_(The_Matrix)) once said: "There is a difference between the way you know and the way you walk. Knowing the path and walking the path are two different things."

I am about to turn sixteen and I now understand much better why nothing in life happens all of a sudden. My chess experience has opened the door for me to understand this rule. Everyone can go on and on about how nothing in life happens all at once, but it seems that very few people really understand it. I became convinced that I understood this rule when I was struggling and rowing to get things. I was convinced when I was trying to take my chess to the next level, when I was striving. I made an important discovery about striving, so let's say: "Easy come, easy go."

## The Deceptive Grandeur of Striving
On December 22, 2023, I started a [YouTube live stream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=voZDNP3Ex6Y), and at the time it started, my chess blitz rating was 1866. The intention of the broadcast was to keep broadcasting and keep playing until I reached a rating of 1900. I had played chess at a rating of 1800 for quite a long time, so I was now experienced enough to be convinced that I could get to 1900 in one evening. After two hours I did so, and it was a very enjoyable evening.

After reaching my goal, I was in no mood to stop playing. I still played blitz chess when I came home from school because more than the rating, I loved chess, I loved practicing my art, I loved the distraction and the distraction from the world for a while. I was playing well enough to surprise myself. Every time I started a match, I knew in my heart that I was going to win, and I never knew how I knew that. I was playing blitz chess about two or three times a day for the rating. I kept playing like that, and I got very good results and I kept getting them.

On the night of February 18, 2024, I had won five matches in a row without losing and my rating had peaked at 1999. Whereas just fifty-eight days earlier I had been striving to get to 1900, and I wondered how this was possible. It couldn't have been easy to suddenly get a hundred rating. Fifty-eight days could easily be characterized as a suddenness to gain a hundred ratings and become 1999 elo because I had just reached 1900.

I was blinded by ambition, I was sick of seeing 1999. That night I played a sixth game and lost, then I played another game and lost again, then another and another... I wanted to break 2000, I was on the verge of doing so with some great performances, but I couldn't go beyond 1999 and I crashed all the way back to around 1940. In the first place, I had no desire to break 2000, I liked chess and I played a few games a day to distract myself. But that night I played the sixth game, not because I liked chess, but because of the evil desires of my ego. The rational thing would have been to restrain myself there and to continue playing the next day the way I had been playing the previous days. That didn't happen, the more I lost, the more damaged my ego became, the more I wanted to play, the more I played the more I lost, the more I lost the more damaged I became, the more damaged I became the more I played... I didn't even care about my fatigue, I kept playing to win back what I had lost, I didn't stop trying, I didn't stop struggling. This continued until I dropped to around 1940, and finally I was so frustrated that I had to quit: A total of over twenty matches and a large majority of defeats. At the end of the day, I was back to where I was a few months ago, the killer of a long, hard-working marathon overnight. What had I done? What did I think I had done? It's a shame...

This kind of getting into a rage, losing balance, losing sight, ambition... It wasn't the first time I had experienced these things, I had been frustrated in this way before, but this was very heavy. I was officially disenchanted with chess. I was thinking that I deserved 2000, but I didn't get what I deserved. And how close was I to reaching 2000, and all at once? It was a sudden rise, whereas it takes a long time to get a hundred ratings.

The truth is I didn't deserve it. If I deserved it, I would have been 2000, but I didn't. That's chess. In life when you don't get something you want, it's very easy to throw blame around, there are many things that pull you down, but in chess you are forced to face yourself. Sometimes you are just a thief of your own labor and you have to accept it.

After that night, I continued to play chess, I couldn't stop because it still bothered me. I played more often than before. It's like that, when things are going well, you don't dwell on it too much. You don't bother to ask, "Why did it work so well, why is it so successful, why is it so good?" You don't dwell on it too much, because good is good, it's good, it pleases you, so there's no need to look behind it, no need to look beyond it. However, when one day everything starts to go wrong, the questions, reasons, rebellions are endless. Because setbacks are unsettling, one wants to clean them up. You try hard to fix it, but the more you struggle, the more it will sink. If you do nothing, maybe things won't go that badly, but the more you try, the worse things will get. That's what happened with me, I wasn't earning as much as I used to. It was like I was playing blitz ten times a day, fifteen times a day and throwing another shovel, another shovel of dirt on myself. What is it, I used to rise slowly without having to play so much, what is this violence, this violence? Moreover, I was sinking rather than rising.

After struggling for quite a long time, exams and my sporadic responsibilities started to occupy me. I also moved on to other pursuits other than chess. I didn't see chess for a while.

I am writing this on April 5, 2024. A few weeks ago I started to play chess in a more healthy way, that is, I was only interested in it for one or two games a day. Without realizing it, I had returned to chess because one of the main reasons for its presence in my life was its distraction and its ability to take me away from the world for a while. Without me even realizing it, things worked out and chess returned to its old position: It was not a war, it was an art.

Now I had a balanced game performance like I used to have. I was swimming in the 1950s ratings, which one day could suddenly rise to the 1990s, but this time I wasn't going to make any extra effort to get to 2000, I mustn't repeat that mistake. The rating wasn't that important, I was just going to enjoy the time I spent staying in the moment. While I was doing this, my rating went up without me even realizing it. When I think about it, I marvel at these ups and downs, how everything fell into place when I gave it some time. Maybe sometimes you shouldn't be so hard on yourself, shouldn't try so hard.

## Conclusion
Things that are easily acquired can be lost as easily as they are acquired. Indeed, nothing happens suddenly in life. You can suddenly reach the highest heights, but you can also suddenly fall to the lowest lows. Wanting too much, trying too hard; okay, we will want, we will think and try, but trying to cover up wrong strategies with spontaneous exits is nothing more than an irrational wasting of time. **Nothing happens all at once.** Real success is not realized in temporary and spontaneous leaps, but in small cumulative steps, in a marathon of gradual steps. **Success is a marathon.**

Intelligence can put you ahead of others **in an instant**, it can promise you spontaneous leaps, it can give you all kinds of advantages, but it is not what you need most in life. Because it is not the strongest that survives, but **the most adaptable.** And harmony is rational. And this is what human beings are most incapable of: To be smart, to act rationally.

We did not choose the intelligence we have, but we can choose to be smart. We lose what we have through very simple mistakes. Sometimes it is not necessary to have the highest tactical skills to play a game well; being in the right place at the right time, applying the right strategy is enough to win the game.

I have experienced all this in chess, but it is also manifested in life itself. When one wants something badly, one should approach it with rational and effective steps, instead of clinging to it in a blind blindness. The goal should be observed in pieces. Just as going from 1900 to 2000 ratings is not something that can be accomplished in a few days, weeks or months. Just like a project in the works doesn't suddenly become the best version of itself. Just like financial strategies don't suddenly come to fruition. Just like a political party doesn't suddenly come to power. Just as language learning does not happen in a few days. All this is a marathon. They do not happen with excessive and vulgar moves, but with simple and effective ones. Sometimes the change one needs can be as simple as scheduling a reading session for one hour out of twenty-four. How can human beings achieve their goals when they are so irrational that they cannot even regulate their sleeping, eating and drinking habits?

The rule that nothing in life is achieved in an instant applies everywhere: in social relationships such as male-female relationships, in financial ups and downs, in politics, in projects, in the next day's exams, in new things you learn. Life itself is a marathon. Effort is effective not when it is practiced in one or two days, but when it is spread over a marathon. Otherwise, it is nothing more than a deception, you think you are moving forward, but you are standing still. One day you will be at the top of your work, but if it is just one day, it means nothing. The important thing is to live at that peak, **to stay there.**